soft links and hard links.
This is,
Ah,
one of the important topics in Lenox and something that you will have to remember because
you will be working on creating soft links and hard links in your linens career.
Or if you're gonna be working in the system administration capacity before I tell you
anything above what a soft link and hard link is,
I have to tell you,
I knowed what I know is I know is basically a pointer or a number off a file on the hard
disk.
So if I create a file call,
let's say Hulk,
that file name is H U l K.
That is a name for me as a human for me to understand the name of the file.
But computer does not understand names computer,
understand numbers.
So every time you create a file,
computer assigns a number to that file on ah,
hard disk and associate that number to it,
that number is called.
I knowed.
And every time he tried to retrieve the file or read a file,
it goes and retrieve that number.
So now,
now you know that I know.
Let me tell you about a soft link.
Now a soft link is a link that when created and it will be removed if ah,
filers removed or renamed.
So if I create a file and I link,
create a link a soft link to that file so once it created,
it actually looks for that.
I know through that file,
so that creates a softening.
So if I removed the source file,
it will remove the destination.
Like whereas Hard Ling has been the leading A renaming the source file,
the heart link will not change.
It will remain the same as if you have copied it.
To create a hard link command,
you will run l n as a link to create a soft link.
You will run the same command,
but with the option minus s.
And I have a picture right here which,
of course,
as picture speaks 1000 words.
So if you see on the right hand side,
it's myself.
Link.
It is connecting through my file to the I note where,
as my hard link is connecting straight to the I note.
So if the middle part,
which is my file dot text goes away,
my soft Lynn goes away However,
in my hard link file,
if middle file my file dot text goes away,
it doesn't matter.
The file stays.
Let's get that log into our machine are letting machine,
and I will explain you much better how those lengths work.
By the way,
one more thing I should mention.
Link is just like a shortcut in a regular term,
as if you are creating a shortcut on your desktop.
In your Windows environment,
you have a fire located somewhere in window system 32 blah,
blah,
blah blah.
Of course,
you have to go to the file all the time by navigating through that file system.
Click,
click,
click.
So much work,
man.
So what do we do?
We create a shortcut to our desktop.
All you have to do is double click and boom.
It runs the same.
Just like that.
We have linen softening and hardening.
So without further ado,
I'm gonna log into my machine and I'll explain you and this is our machine.
It's gonna drag it'll and more to the left.
Just why?
To confirm again it I am logged in as myself.
This is my name.
This is my home directory.
Perfect.
I want to create a file.
Cold Hope everybody knows Hulk,
right?
One character,
big joint character.
I like it.
Like his movies.
Okay.
Anyway,
uh,
I created Ah,
file call,
Hulk.
Now I will like to create a link to that file Hook.
I will go to temp directory.
I am in Tempt Not in my home directory.
And I want to create link soft link to hook and hook fire location his home I have solved.
And the name of the file is hooked.
Boom.
It created the file link.
How do we verify it?
Your friendly command.
Unless my SLT are.
And if you see right at the bottom,
it is telling you it has created a link and Lennox operating system.
Since we are running Lennox with the goo,
it's changes some off the color changes to blue.
So right here the first bit it's telling you it is l What is l four?
L is for link.
What is D for D is for directory?
Yes,
very good.
And what is a file that doesn't have anything?
Of course,
it's a while.
I already answered that.
Okay,
anyway,
so it created a link.
Now I will go back to my home directory,
but just typing C d p w d to just confirm I am in my home drippy.
Yes,
I am.
And I will type something in my file call hook.
So I'll do echo and do,
um hoc is ah,
super hero.
Okay?
And I will put that to poke fall when I do Cat hook,
it's their right.
Okay,
Now I'm gonna go to my temp directory,
and I'll do cat this.
Confirm I'm in my temper.
He is,
And I'm gonna cat the hoc.
And you see,
it has the same content that's just typed.
And so it's just a short,
good,
just a link.
I will come back to my home directory and I will run ls minus.
L I What is I?
I stand for,
I notes if I wanted to find out the I know off this file I will run.
I So,
um yeah,
it's there.
But since I didn't type unless minds lt are went into middle school type talismans lt r and
then high.
So this way it will be at the bottom.
If you see that I know number right here is the number that is associate ID with my file
hook.
Again,
I note is the number that is remembered by your operating system.
And it is on your disk.
It doesn't remember hope.
When I go to temp and do ls my cell to your and right here.
If I do,
it s minus.
Lt are I to find out the I know off this hook,
it has a different I knowed.
Is it a different?
I'm not sure.
Let's check ls minus.
Lt are I.
And I'm gonna do home.
I have so hook,
it has a different I knowed.
So this one is remembered as a different file.
It is remembering at its link.
It does not know that it is actually.
Ah,
file.
It just knows it's a link.
So this number is associated to a link.
Now I will go to my home directory again,
and this time I'm going to remove the Hulk.
Public is gone from my home directory.
Right?
I'm gonna go back to temp directory and I'm going to see where my whole kids But if I just
type Hoke will just give me hook.
So,
Hulk,
is there but it's no longer blue or its look crooked.
Why looks crooked?
Because the file is gone.
If I do cat right now and do hook,
tell me what will happen.
No such file or directory.
Of course,
there is no flat file because the link is removed,
the source link is removed so the link will still linger around,
even though the source off the link is not there.
So it's better they'll just remove the link as well.
And just verified.
Yet it's gone.
If I just wanted to do ls myself tr just through hoc.
Yeah.
See?
No.
So that's how the soft link works.
Now I will explain you how the hard link works.
Let's go and create our file again.
We'll call it Hulk again,
and I will put something inside the file that go.
Hoke is a super hero.
Okay,
I'll put that in hook.
I do a verified.
We'll just do cat the file.
And yes,
Hulk is a superhero.
The continents there.
Now I will go into temp directory and I want to link to this file creating hard link.
You see,
I'm not going with minus s option s stands for softly so I'll do link home.
I have saw Hook Link is created.
How do we verified you just run ls minus l to your and you will see at the bottom.
It's telling me that the link is created now.
The difference between this link,
hard link and soft link is that there is no pointing to other file.
That is the difference off Harling softly.
Now,
if you'll read.
If I read the content of this file,
it says Hulk is a superhero is the same content,
everything the same.
Now let me go back to my home directory.
I'm in their home directory.
Let's check that hook file,
and I will write down something else in it.
Now that go 123 and then to hook.
Let's read it.
Hug is a superhero,
and then 123 in the line.
I'll go back into my temp directory and cat hook,
and it is added here as well.
So what is telling us that you could modify the source file?
You could modify the contents of the store source file.
It will modify the destination link,
which is perfect.
Now let's go to my home directory again.
And this time I will remove hook.
All right,
health file is gone.
He confirmed it.
It's not there now.
I will go back to temp directory and I will do Unless my SLT are again and you will see the
file still exists.
The link still exist.
And when we do,
Hoke and Indust still have all the contents.
Have you put it in?
Well,
okay,
so what is it telling us?
It's telling us that in the hard link,
when you remove the source off the file,
it does not remove the destination.
So that's the basic difference is I'll go ahead and just remove this hog file as well.
The Hulk A link as well.
So,
um,
please do remember the difference between soft link and heart link.
Many times,
these question will be asked during the interview.
If you're not going for the interview,
if you are just wanted to,
um,
level up your career,
have fun